do you love chocolate estimates are that
the average American eats more than 11
pounds of chocolate per year it's a 13
billion dollar industry that's why the
Food Channel decided to take a look at
chocolate trends and see what's
happening in one of America's favorite
flavors craft chocolates this trend
combines all the worries of the world
and solves them with chocolate locally
sourced green pure healthy artisan
premium you know when you make your own
craft chocolates you can mix flavors
make it savory or sweet and mold it to
any shape you want
no wonder the artisan world has seen
things through a chocolate Hague's these
days spreadable chocolate you're seeing
it on the shelves now next to the peanut
butter with brand names right alongside
some independent chocolate makers
versatile spreadable chocolate is easy
to use flavorful and just made for
creativity chocolates with an ethnic
accent we're seeing this across all
deserts not just chocolate but it
appears to have started with chocolate
as Mexican chilies and vanilla got
called out in candy bars and dessert
pizzas are what may have prompted us to
start filling wonton wrappers with
chocolate expect to see more ethnic
flavors that go beyond Mexican and Asian
chocolate in unexpected places chocolate
is not just for the dessert card anymore
think about biscuits and chocolate gravy
for breakfast or mole a sauce over a
slow-cooked pork for dinner it opens up
a whole new world for savory treatments
we think we'll find chocolate included
in more and more menu items chocolate
for the health of it we've had enough of
death by chocolate if we can garner a
few health benefits and eat chocolate at
the same time we are all about it the
trend here is in finding new ways to
present chocolate as healthy
like mixed into a bowl of oatmeal don't
laugh until you've tried it
the cinnamon icing of chocolate cinnamon
is hot right now we're talking about
turning up the heat in the bedroom a
little too thanks to scientists pointing
out that cinnamon is a natural
aphrodisiac add a little cinnamon to
chocolate anything and it will bring out
a subtle difference that will help your
recipes has standout he said she said
chocolate and a women tend to like their
chocolate dark with a high percentage of
cacao men tend to go on the sweet side
with milk chocolate what restaurants are
noticing is that women make a lot of the
decisions at mealtime and they choose
chocolate in a variety of ways marketers
know to cater to women and with more
women run businesses maybe it's time
chocolate is getting its day a chocolate
for every dietary need the huge rise in
gluten-free diners has had a big impact
on menus desserts included people don't
want to sacrifice flavor in order to
feel good this is a growing trend with
wide-reaching impact crowd-sourced
chocolate call it whatever you want a
mash-up personalization customization
this trend says that chocolate is
showing up with some unusual
combinations we've already created new
candy bars and combined all kinds of
flavors and now we're taking recipes and
making them chocolate pour more
chocolate by combining flavors the
influence of social media is obvious
here too starting with a whole group of
people on Twitter who are devoted to
chocolate which brings us to number 10
chocolate pairings it's not new to put
chocolate with something else to
complement it but we're seeing a lot
more of it we're seeing alcohol tinged
brownies and candy using with hints of
rum we're finding chocolate bread
pudding with whiskey sauce and classic
after-dinner drinks like the Brandy
Alexander paired with chocolate ice
cream we aren't seeing a slowdown in
chocolate paired with salt either it's
still winning awards at the food shows
and we're seeing it on more and more
menus even the everyday beef droves are
showing off their trends by dipping
house-made potato chips in chocolate for
an after-dinner treat
there you have it chocolate trends you
can now start to watch for it
restaurants at the grocery store and at
home and while you're watching eat some
for us because we're still working on
our 11 pounds of chocolate this year
[Music]